---
title: Advice from the 1963 class of Harvard Business School
excerpt: Be kind. Soon we’ll all be dead. - Dave Crowley
---


I just read a great article.

I'm careful with absolutes, but I think it might be be my favorite thing I've read in 2015.

The article presents advice from the Havard Busines School class of 1963. They were asked about career, family, life, and religion; and the things they had to say were awesome.

Sometimes irreverant, rehearsed, deeply sincere, reading what they have to say is an incredible peek into the minds from a very different (and very similar) time.

You can read the whole piece here: [http://hbs1963.com/](http://hbs1963.com/)

I've selected a few favorite quotes to show the flavor of it.


## Business

> I would have been a better leader if I had been less cocky in my early career and more confident in my middle career.

Scott Spangler

> Never go to bed without having something in mind that you need to do tomorrow... for yourself or others.

Bob Griffin


## Life

> The evidence is clear and persuasive: after "friends and family," the leading source of happiness is "helping other people."

Gary MacDougal

> Success is when you can spend 90 percent of your time doing the things you want to do and only 10 percent doing things you have to do.  Most people’s lives are just the opposite.

Scott Spangler

> When I think back over my career, I am struck that my fondest memories are of people rather than experiences, places, or accomplishments.

J. Lawrence Wilson

> Be skilled in political strategy... In my mind, there is organizational politics in any group with more than three people.

Jose M. Faustino


## Marriage

> As for marriage, give space and insist on your own.
>
> Before the ceremony, look for brains, even temper (that I lack), a can-do attitude, and accomplishments.
> Check out the prospective in-laws carefully. And at the end, seek true beauty (philosophy and appearance). Forget infatuation.

George I. Roen

> For a successful marriage, don’t eat crackers in bed.
