---
shortName: three
title: "th:ree"
summary: Visual timer with a minimalist aesthetic
colorName: blue
mainImg: x.jpg
technologies:
  - title: Swift
  - title: UIView / CALayer animations
  - title: Background / Local Notifications
links:
- title: TimerVC.swift (GitHub Gist)
  url: https://gist.github.com/SimplGy/07db5e71e074e9bf9b1a45181240adaa
---

## Features

* Beautiful, full-screen visual timer
* Three seperate time scales: 2, 10, and 60 minutes
* Tap to see remaining time, otherwise, just a subtle, intuitive, shape-based display
* Great responsive feel when dragging this timer up and down, like moving a pool of ferrous material
* Timer rings with peacful bird chirping sounds sampled from Thailand
* Screen flashes while ringing as a fallback in case volume is off. The screen flashes match audio levels.

## Notes

I was motivated to try my first swift app because the timing seemed right (Swift just released) and I didn't have any full-time clients. I also had just made a friend in Chiang Mai who really knew what he was doing on mobile so I thought it'd be awesome to have both that additional shared interest and someone to ask questions when I got stuck.

It was just a toy, but I wanted to release something, so I bet my girlfriend $100 I'd submit it to the app store by my birthday.

With that motivation in place, I knew I had to pick something small in scope. I thought "A timer! that's so easy! I'll just put a unique spin on it and be done in a few days."

Little did I know that building a long-running timer in iOS is one of the most difficult things you can do for reasons that aren't immediately obvious. If it's going to ring an hour from now, you need all kinds of permissions from the user, and even then if their volume is off there's nothing you can do about it. This is challenging because it's just not the expectation people have when coming from the Apple timer. It works with volume off, when locked, with no extra permissions.